# Slog

Slog is a work I have done for college assignment IF3110 Web-Based Development [Simple Blog](https://github.com/if-itb/IF3110-01-Simple-Blog). The assignment is to create a blog using PHP without any frameworks nor JavaScript frameworks.

Please note that the website design and structure is still *very very* unsafe and **should not be used directly without modification**. For example, the post and comment feature are very prone to malicious HTML injection. After all, Slog is only created in a week from a delirious folder by a drunk programmer for a college assignment -- surely you shouldn't expect much.

## Structure

- `index.php`: the main request handler.
- `css/style.css`: contains the stylesheet for the website. I generated the stylesheet using [LESS](http://lesscss.org/). The LESS files is available at `css/less` folder.
- `js/script.js`: contains the web page script for the website.
- `php`: contains the PHP files.
  - `php/action`: contains form requests handlers.
  - `php/ajax`: contains AJAX requests handlers.
  - `php/crud`: contains functions to retrieve, update, and delete posts and comments.
  - `php/lib`: contains helper functions to access database and creating URLs.
  - `php/pages`: contains pages that can be accessed using `?p=<page_name>`.
  - `php/templates`: contains templates for views.
  - `php/views`: contains views that will be shown to user.
  - `php/config.php`: contains the configuration variables for the website.

## Notes

The web page content is generated by `index.php`, which will use the correct view or do correct actions based on the value of `GET` parameters. The internal design uses `require` directive available in PHP. This design was partially inspired by [CodeIgniter](https://ellislab.com/codeigniter). This allows URL rewriting (depends on the server) and easier MVC design.

This website depends on MySQLi feature available in the PHP interpreter, which should be for most PHP-based web servers. The configurations (user name, password, database name, database server) are available at `config.php`. A sample SQL database dump is provided at `slog.sql`.

## License

Slog is licensed under MIT License.

----

Feel free to contact me at [@tkesgar](https://twitter.com/tkesgar) about this project.
